# miscalibrate
this is a zsh script to keep a calibre (*spits*) library in sync with audiobooks stored in beets, without giving up file control to calibre (*spits*). currently it's not very polished or flexible lol so you've gotta edit the first few lines to customise settings. `AUDIOBOOKQUERY` is the beets query phrase used to limit operations to audiobooks so every song doesn't get added to calibre. this whole setup also assumes that your audiobooks are one file per book and tagged in a specific way. `CALIBRELIBRARY` is the path to your calibre (*spi*—you get the idea) library, no trailing slash. cdb is the calibredb command to use. it's better to have calibre-server running separately and connect to it than to use calibredb directly, cos otherwise it's loading up the database for every operation apparently. 

currently the script accepts four options: `-c` to **c**reate audiobooks to calibre that aren't there already, `-u` to **u**pdate every audiobook in calibre with metadata from beets (potentially a long and unnecessary operation), `-d` to **d**elete any broken audiobooks from calibre and erase broken records from beets, and `-s` to **s**ync, equivalent to `-cud` and the default behaviour if no options are specified.

calibre is a ~~finicky, bloated, unmanageable pain in the proverbial~~ ~~flagrant violation of unix philosophy~~ piece of software which makes certain opinionated choices about library storage that can be inconvenient for certain use cases. it insists on storing all files in its own folders, and when adding books it always copies the files rather than moving them. it fails if told to add a symlink instead of a real file. however, if it's told to add a format to a book that already exists in the correct location, no copying is done. and if that file is a hardlink of a file existing elsewhere, calibre doesn't notice. (this doesn't work for symlinks, though if a symlink replaces the original book later, calibre won't notice.) this script exploits this behaviour, and therefore requires your audiobooks and your calibre library to be stored on the same drive/subvolume/whatever you can make hardlinks across.
